---
title: Flesh-footed shearwaters caught by recreational fishers
---

Collecting dead birds from Bay of Plenty beaches after the Rena
grounding showed that not all the deaths were caused by the 350 tonnes
of heavy fuel oil that leaked from the vessel. 

The team that handled
more than 2000 oiled birds also found 64 unoiled flesh-footed
shearwaters that were in good body condition, and found evidence that
some had apparently been killed as a result of interactions with
recreational fishers.

<!--more-->

The flesh-footed shearwater is included on the IUCN Red List of
Threatened Species.

“Of the 15 flesh-footed shearwaters autopsied, hooks used by amateur
fishers (possibly for snapper) were found inside two birds, but most
deaths were caused by trauma. This included broken wings, crushed
skulls and stab wounds—presumably inflicted when birds were removed
from fishing hooks after being pulled onboard,” says Alan Tennyson,
Curator at Te Papa.

Alan worked with the Massey University veterinary team and Maritime
New Zealand in the aftermath of the oil spill.

Other unoiled dead birds found were common diving petrels, sooty
shearwaters, Buller’s shearwaters, little penguins and white-faced
storm petrels. Although some had died before the spill, starvation
appeared to be the main cause of death.

Edward Abraham of Dragonfly adds, “We have known that birds are caught
by recreational fishers for a while. We haven't had much evidence of
the effect of being caught on the birds. This find shows that birds
may be killed as a result of being hooked.”

In their report, based on interviews with fishers, Dragonfly estimated that in the northeastern region of New Zealand (which
includes the Bay of Plenty and the Hauraki Gulf) there were somewhere
between 6 000 and 16 000 seabird captures per year by recreational
fishers. Although many of the birds may be unharmed, and simply
unhooked or untangled and allowed to fly away, some proportion of
these captured birds will be being killed.

[Read a summary of the Dragonfly
report](http://www.dragonfly.co.nz/references/abraham_capture_2010.html)

[Download the full report from
MPI](http://fs.fish.govt.nz/Page.aspx?pk=113&dk=22393)


