---
title: More robins released near Eastbourne
---

More than 70 people were involved in the translocation of 40 North
Island robins from Kapiti Island to the hills behind Eastbourne in
April as part of the MIRO (Mainland Island Restoration Operation)
project run by volunteers.

Yvan from Dragonfly was one of eight ‘catchers’ on Kapiti
Island. He studied robins during his PhD and became expert at catching
them, so was pleased to be able to help out.

<!--more-->

“The first day I did a recce of my area. I worked out the territories
and where the males and females were, and trained them to come for
meal worms. The next day other volunteers arrived who helped catch,
band and put them safely into boxes. We easily caught the 40 birds
needed - I was amazed at how smoothly it all went,” says Yvan.

The next morning the birds were flown by helicopter to Eastbourne and
locals carried them into the Butterfly Creek area, where they were
released progressively.

“It was a fantastic turnout and great to have so many local people
there helping out. It’s a great community project.”

Robins were previously released in the East Harbour Regional Park in
2008 and 2011 and regular monitoring has turned up both the banded
birds and some other unbanded birds, indicating that they are breeding
in the area.

Robins are very curious birds that live close to the ground and are
easy targets for introduced pests. The translocation could only go
ahead due to effective trapping and monitoring of possums and rats in
the area, carried out by volunteers. Possum numbers are now thought to
be very low.

Ongoing monitoring by volunteers will hopefully show that the
population of robins in the area is increasing. To find out more [see
the MIRO website.](http://www.miro.org.nz/)

Yvan hopes to help out with another robin translocation to forest near
Wainuiomata in July, being run by the Greater Wellington Regional
Council.

