---
pdf: Abraham-AEBR-2017-188-Marine-mammal-and-turtle-captures-199596-to-201415.pdf
tags: edward, katrin, marine-mammal, dragonfly, report, bayesian
---
Commercial fisheries in New Zealand waters interact with non-target species,
with some of these interactions resulting in incidental captures and mortality.
Captures of protected species are documented by fisheries observers, providing
an independent record of the number and identify of the species captured in New
Zealand’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). For species with sufficient numbers of
observed captures, the observer records and fishing effort data are used to
develop statistical models to estimate the total number of captures across
species and fisheries in New Zealand waters. This study presents total capture
estimates of marine mammals and sea turtles in trawl and longline fisheries for
the period between the 1995–96 and 2014–15 fishing years (a fishing year runs
from 1 October to 30 September).  For marine mammals, observer data allowed the
estimation of captures of common dolphin, New Zealand fur seal, and New Zealand
sea lion in trawl fisheries. In addition, estimates were made of New Zealand fur
seal and sea turtles in surface-longline fisheries. Estimates of captures were
made with hierarchical Generalised Linear Models (GLMs), fitted using Bayesian
methods.

Observed captures of marine mammals during the 2014–15 fishing year included 176
fur seal captures (127 in trawl fisheries, 37 in surface-longline fisheries, and
12 in set-net fisheries), 24 common dolphin captures (21 in trawl fisheries, two
in set-net fisheries, and one in surface-longline fisheries); and eight New
Zealand sea lion captures in trawl fisheries. In addition, there were observed
captures of two dusky dolphin in trawl fisheries, and one bottlenose dolphin in
surface-longline fisheries. A green turtle was observed caught during trawl
fishing, and a leatherback turtle was observed caught during surface longlining.

For common dolphin, capture estimates were made for the 20-year period between
1995–96 and 2014–15.  Separate estimates of common dolphin captures were derived
for the large-vessel (90 m length and longer) jack mackerel trawl fishery off
North Island’s west coast, and for all other trawl fisheries in New Zealand
waters. The jack mackerel trawl fishery has been characterised by high numbers
of observed common dolphin captures throughout the reporting period. In the
2014–15 fishing year, there were an estimated 21 (95% c.i.: 19 to 28) common
dolphin captures in this trawl fishery. Across all trawl fisheries within New
Zealand’s EEZ, there were an estimated 104 (95% c.i.: 50 to 189) common dolphin
captures. Included in these captures were 60 (95% c.i.: 14 to 135) estimated
common dolphin captures in flatfish and inshore trawl fisheries in the Taranaki
area (which extends from north of Taranaki Penin- sula to Farewell Spit,
including Tasman Bay). We recommend increased observer coverage of inshore
fisheries in the Taranaki area to reduce uncertainty in the estimates.

Estimates of New Zealand fur seal captures were made in trawl and
surface-longline fisheries for the period from 2002–03 to 2014–15. Estimated fur
seal captures in trawl fisheries peaked in 2004–05 at 1487 (95% c.i.: 964 to
2370) captures, and by 2014–15, estimated captures were reduced to 536 (95%
c.i.: 332 to 969) fur seal. Hoki trawl fisheries had the highest captures,
especially in the Cook Strait area, where there were an estimated 160 (95% c.i.:
36 to 527) captures during 2014–15. Between 2002–03 and 2014–15, the average
observed capture rate on small hoki trawl vessels in the Cook Strait area was
22.33 fur seals per 100 tows. Observer coverage in this fishery has been
limited, and to reduce the uncertainty in estimated New Zealand fur seal
captures, we recommend increased observer coverage of small hoki trawl vessels
operating in the Cook Strait area. In surface-longline fisheries, there were an
estimated 116 (95% c.i.: 87 to 151) fur seal captures during 2014–15. Most
(94.7%) of the fur seal observed caught in surface-longline fisheries were
released alive.

Captures of New Zealand sea lion were estimated for 20 fishing years between
1995–96 and 2014–15.  Across all trawl fisheries, there were 12 (95% c.i.: 8 to
17) estimated captures of New Zealand sea lion during the 2014–15 fishing year.
There was high observer coverage in the fisheries that frequently catch sea lion
(88.3% observer coverage of squid fishing in the Auckland Islands area, and 100%
observer coverage of subantarctic southern blue whiting fishing), so estimated
captures were close to the observed captures. In subantarctic squid and southern
blue whiting fisheries, sea lion exclusion devices (SLEDs) are used to reduce
the number of animals that are caught. There were 81 (95% c.i.: 27 to 281)
estimated sea lion interactions, providing an estimate of the number of sea lion
that would have been observed caught, if no SLEDs had been used. There is very
high uncertainty in the number of interactions. There is little information
available to inform the model, as the interaction rate (interactions per tow)
may vary from year to year. We recommend that the model structure is simplified,
for example, by assuming a constant base interaction rate over all years, or an
interaction rate that is proportional to the sea lion population.

Estimates were also made of turtle captures in surface-longline fisheries
between 2002–03 and 2014–15.  In 2014–15, there were an estimated 13 (95% c.i.:
2 to 35) captures of turtles in surface-longline fisheries, an average capture
rate over all New Zealand surface-longline fisheries of 0.005 (95% c.i.: 0.001
to 0.015) turtle captures per 1000 hooks.

