---
pdf: Abrahametal_2016_AEBR-169-protected-species-catch.pdf 
tags: edward, yvan, katrin, finlay, seabird, marine-mammal, turtle, dragonfly, report, bayesian
---
In New Zealand's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), government fisheries observers
on-board commercial fishing vessels record the incidental captures of protected
species, including seabirds, marine mammals and turtles. For fisheries with
sufficient observer coverage, these data, combined with fishing effort data,
allow the development of statistical models to estimate the total number of
incidental captures. The current study updates previous bycatch assessments,
providing total capture estimates of seabirds, marine mammals and turtles in
trawl and longline fisheries for the period between 2002–03 and 2012–13 (with
some models extending back to the 1995–96 fishing year).

There was a total of 4379 (95% credible interval (c.i.): 3654–5340) estimated
seabird captures in all trawl and longline fisheries within the outer boundary
of New Zealand's EEZ in 2012–13. Most seabird captures occurred in trawl
fisheries, with 2604 (95% c.i.: 2055–3465) estimated seabird captures, compared
with bottom-longline and surface-longline fisheries that had 991 (95% c.i.:
666–1349) and 783 (95% c.i.: 567–1144) estimated seabird captures,
respectively. Of the total capture estimate for 2012–13, 1658 (95% c.i.:
1355–2049) captures were of albatross, and 2721 (95% c.i.: 2079–3613) captures
were of petrels and other seabirds. The estimation included captures in all
trawl fisheries, and in small- and large-vessel surface-longline and
bottom-longline fisheries (cut-off vessel lengths 45 and 34 m,
respectively). Although small-vessel fisheries were associated with most of
the seabird captures, observer coverage in these fisheries continued to be
low, especially in small-vessel trawl fisheries.

Statistical models were also built to estimate total captures of seven seabird
species or species groupings, including New Zealand white-capped albatross
(<i>Thalassarche steadi</i>), Salvin's albatross (<i>Thalassarche salvini</i>),
southern Buller's albatross (<i>Thalassarche bulleri bulleri</i>),
white-chinned petrel (<i>Procellaria aequinoctialis</i>), sooty shearwater
(<i>Puffinus griseus</i>), "other albatrosses", and "other birds". For New
Zealand white-capped albatross, there was a total of 558 (95% c.i.: 435–724)
estimated captures in 2012–13, compared with 487 (95% c.i.: 294–794) estimated
captures of Salvin's albatross, 259 (95% c.i.: 200–341) estimated captures of
southern Buller's albatross, 368 (95% c.i.: 242–576) estimated captures of
sooty shearwater, and 586 (95% c.i.: 470–755) estimated captures of
white-chinned petrel.  For the two species groupings other albatrosses and
other birds, capture estimates were 354 (95% c.i.: 219–598) and 1766 (95% c.i.:
1170–2654) captures, respectively.

For marine mammals, sufficient observer data allowed the estimation of captures
of common dolphins, New Zealand fur seals, and New Zealand sea lions in
different fisheries. Captures of common dolphins were estimated for the jack
mackerel trawl fishery off the North Island's west coast, as the majority of
observed common dolphin captures occurred in this fishery (139 of a total 157
observed captures in all trawl fisheries between 1995–96 and 2012–13). In
2012–13, there were an estimated 15 (95% c.i.: 15–19) common dolphin captures
in the large-vessel (90 m or longer) jack mackerel trawl fishery, and the
estimated capture rate was 0.87 (95% c.i.: 0.87–1.11) dolphins per 100 tows.
Both estimates were higher than those in the preceding fishing year, when there
were seven (95% c.i.: 5–14) estimated common dolphin captures, with a capture
rate of 0.43 (95% c.i.: 0.30–0.85) dolphins per 100 tows. Of the covariates
included in the model, distance of the headline below the surface best
explained common dolphin captures.

New Zealand fur seals were incidentally captured in a number of different trawl
fisheries, involving a range of target species and fishing areas. Across all
trawl fisheries, there were an estimated 398 (95% c.i.: 236–713) captures of
fur seals in 2012–13, and the estimated capture rate in 2012–13 was 0.48 (95%
c.i.: 0.28–0.85) fur seals per 100 tows. Most of the estimated captures were in
the hoki trawl fishery, with 242 (95% c.i.: 114–534) estimated fur seal
captures and a capture rate of 2.07 (95% c.i.: 0.98–4.57) fur seals per 100
tows. For other target fisheries, capture estimates in 2012–13 included trawls
targeting middle-depth species (78 estimated captures; 95% c.i.: 29–189),
southern blue whiting (26 estimated captures; 95% c.i.: 26–26), ling (15
estimated captures; 95% c.i.: 5–42), and hake (11 estimated captures; 95% c.i.:
8–21). Other trawl target fisheries had less than ten mean estimated captures
in 2012–13, and included squid, mackerel, and scampi fisheries). Estimated fur
seal captures in deepwater fisheries were close to zero (95% c.i.: 0–1). Low
observer effort in inshore trawl fisheries (0.5% coverage in 2012–13) resulted
in an uncertain capture estimate of 11 fur seal captures (95% c.i.: 0–49).

In addition to trawl fisheries, New Zealand fur seals were incidentally caught
in surface-longline fisheries. In 2012–13, there were 112 (95% c.i.: 72–163)
estimated captures of fur seals in surface-longline fisheries, and the
corresponding estimated capture rate was 0.04 (95% c.i.: 0.03–0.06) fur seals
per 1000 hooks.

The number of captures of New Zealand sea lions in subantarctic trawl fisheries
was estimated for five combinations of target fishery and area, including the
squid, scampi, and other trawl fisheries off Auckland Islands, the southern
blue whiting trawl fishery off Campbell Island, and all trawl fisheries on the
Stewart-Snares shelf. The total number of estimated captures across all strata
was 33 (95% c.i.: 27–40) sea lions in 2012–13. This estimate was markedly
higher than in the preceding fishing year, when there were an estimated 12 (95%
c.i.: 5–21) sea lion captures. Most of the estimated sea lion captures were in
the southern blue whiting fishery, with 21 (95% c.i.: 21–22) estimated captures
and an estimated capture rate of 2.72 (95% c.i.: 2.72–2.85) sea lions per 100
tows. High observer coverage of 99.9% in the southern blue whiting fishery
meant that the estimated captures were equal to the observed captures.

High numbers of sea lion captures in the Auckland Islands squid fishery over
time resulted in the use of sea lion exclusion devices (SLEDs) that are fitted
to trawl nets in this fishery. The use of SLEDs means that the number of sea
lion that may have escaped the net and the post-escape survival of escapees are
unknown. For this reason, the estimation of sea lion captures in this fishery
includes the number of interactions, which is the number of sea lions that
would have been caught had no SLEDs been used. The corresponding strike rate
indicates the number of interactions per 100 tows. There were an estimated
54 (95% c.i.: 7–261) interactions in this fishery in 2012–13, and the strike
rate was 5.26 (95% c.i.: 0.68– 25.41) interactions per 100 tows. The total
number of interactions for all trawl fisheries was 83 (95% c.i.: 35–288)
interactions, with a strike rate of 0.54 (95% c.i.: 0.23–1.87) interactions per
100 tows in 2012–13. The large uncertainty associated with these estimates
highlights the difficulty of providing reliable estimates of the number of
interactions and the strike rate. This uncertainty results from the data
becoming increasingly biased towards tows that used SLEDs and a decrease in
observed captures in recent years.

Observer data of incidental captures of sea turtles document 17 observed
captures between 2002–03 and 2012–13. Most of these captures (15) were in
surface-longline fisheries, with one observed capture each in inshore trawl
fisheries and the snapper bottom-longline fishery. Based on the observer data,
the capture estimate of sea turtles was 11 (95% c.i.: 5–20) individuals in
2012–13.
