---
pdf: Abrahametal_2017_WCPFC.pdf
tags: edward, yvan, risk-assessment, seabird, fisheries, dragonfly, report
---
New Zealand has been utilising and refining a spatially explicit assessment of
risk to seabirds from commercial fishing since 2009. New Zealand has been
intending to extend the risk assessment framework applied to main fishing
methods within the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) to a broader set of
fisheries. This paper presents the progress on this to date, where the
methodology has been applied to public tuna RFMO fishing data throughout the
southern hemisphere for the 26 ACAP listed seabird species that breed in the
southern hemisphere. This version of the risk assessment is updated from that
presented to CCSBT in March 2017 due to the inclusion of effort data from north
of 25 degrees S from WCPFC.

Across all the seabird species and surface longline fishing effort included in
this study, the total estimated annual potential fatalities were 6275 (95% c.i.:
4918â€“8054). The risk ratio is defined as the ratio of the annual potential
fatalities to the population sustainability threshold (PST), a measure of the
productivity of seabird species. Black petrel had the highest risk ratio,
followed by three wandering-type albatross species (Tristan albatross, Amsterdam
albatross, and Antipodean albatross). All other seabird species had risk ratios
that were entirely less than one.

This paper is a report on progress, and the data used in this initial iteration
contain some deficiencies. In particular, the vulnerability of seabirds to
capture was estimated using New Zealand data only; the seabird distributions
were simplistic; and effort data that was not reported to RFMOs was not
included.  The analysis can readily be updated however, if improved data become
available.

