---
pdf:  berkenbusch_regional_2019.pdf
tags: katrin, benthic, seagrass, shrimp, dragonfly, presentation
title: Regional patterns of macrofaunal diversity and abundance determined by antagonistic ecosystem engineers in soft-sediment intertidal habitats
---
Macrofaunal assemblages in soft-sediment environments frequently contain
species, ecosystem engineers, that exert a disproportional influence on the
structure and diversity of benthic communities.  The present study examined the
influence of co-occurring but antagonistic burrowing shrimps (Callianassidae)
and intertidal seagrasses (Zosteracea) on the diversity of benthic assemblages
in two temperate regions, south-eastern New Zealand and north-western United
States.  In each region, diversity and abundance patterns of intertidal
macrofaunal assemblages were examined in relation to varying burrowing shrimp
and seagrass densities across different-sized estuaries, in summer and winter.  
Although the compositions of macrofaunal assemblages were distinctly different
between sites dominated by burrowing shrimp and seagrass, differences in
univariate assemblage indices were less distinct.  While species diversity was
generally similar at burrowing shrimp and seagrass sites, species abundance was
frequently higher at the latter sites.  These patterns were consistent across
summer and winter, and across spatial scales, although there were some
differences across regions.  Even though population densities of burrowing
shrimp and seagrass can vary over time, findings from this study highlight the
relative influence of these antagonistic ecosystem engineers on the long-term
structure and functioning of intertidal macrofaunal assemblages. 
