---
pdf: neubauer_delphi_2016.pdf
tags: philipp, edward, katrin, chris, dragonfly, report, bayesian
title: Delphi survey to assess the spatial distribution of sea turtles in the Pacific Ocean
---

To understand interactions between turtle and fisheries, the Pacific Community
(SPC) required quantitative maps of the distribution of turtle through the
Pacific Ocean. A web-based tool was developed that allowed experts to draw maps
of the distributions of four species of turtle: green (*Chelonia mydas*),
leatherback (*Dermochelys coriacea*), loggerhead (*Carea carea*), and olive
ridley (*Lepidochelys olivacea*). Each of these species is ranked as either
endangered or vulnerable, and the reduction of fisheries bycatch mortalities has
been highlighted as a priority for their conservation.

From the survey responses, a spatially-explicit Bayesian  model was used to
derive relative abundance of the turtle throughout the Pacific. Survey
particants mapped abundance using five categories (from absent to maximum
abundance), and the analysis fitted a continuously valueddensity to the
responses. In addition to a mean value, the analysis allowed for uncertainty in
the distributions to be plotted, highlighting regions where the particpants
disagreed.  An iterative Delphi  process was used that allowed survey
particpants to update their responses in lighht of the combined analysis. 

The web application allowed for the spatial mapping to be carried out
efficiently, with the results being used by the Western and Central Pacific
Fisheries Comission in a [Workshop on Joint Analysis of Sea Turtle Mitigation
Effectiveness](http://www.commonoceans.org/news/news-detail/en/c/459008/)

