---
title: Johanna Pierre joins Dragonfly 
---
Having worked together on several protected species projects in the
last seven years, Johanna Pierre is joining Dragonfly Science this
month. She will also maintain her private consultancy, JPEC.

“I have enjoyed the projects I’ve worked on with Edward and Finlay,
and am looking forward to joining forces with them”, she says.

<!--more-->

Johanna has experience in the protected species area internationally.
“Many, if not most of the species we’re working on spend significant
amounts of their time out of New Zealand waters, so a wider
perspective on the issues is essential.  Often, solutions to bycatch
issues are applicable worldwide too, and the flow of information and
expertise goes both ways.

 “International work was a significant component of my time at DOC
(Department of Conservation), where I worked on regional fisheries
management organisations such as [CCSBT](http://www.ccsbt.org) and
[SPRFMO](http://www.southpacificrfmo.org), which highlighted the role
our country plays on the global fisheries stage. I also worked on
[CCAMLR](http://www.ccamlr.org) and [ACAP](http://www.acap.aq) where I
was New Zealand’s national contact for a number of years.

“The marine science/fisheries community is very small, so to ensure
you’re talking to the best people and to stay relevant, you have to
maintain strong links offshore.

“During my time at the Ministry of Science and Innovation, I led the
development of the science and technology relationship New Zealand has
with Asia. That region is growing and changing extremely rapidly,
particularly China, and that presents huge opportunities for our
scientists. Capturing opportunities for scientists working here but
keen to collaborate offshore was very satisfying. Because we are a
small country, we have a huge amount to gain by having strong networks
with other countries.”

“To me, science-based truth can become obscured in controversial
environments, so I tend to favour ‘ripping the band-aid off’ and
getting into things.”


