---
title: Seabird estimation report published
---

A recent Aquatic Environment and Biodiversity Report estimates the
number of seabirds captured during commercial fishing in New Zealand
waters between 2002–03 and 2008–09. 

In New Zealand, government
observers are present on some vessels and record any captures of
seabirds and other protected species that occur. This study estimated
the total numbers of seabirds that would have been reported if
observers had been present on every fishing vessel.

<!--more-->

A recent Aquatic Environment and Biodiversity Report, prepared by
Dragonfly for the Ministry of Fisheries, estimates the number
of seabirds captured during commercial fishing in New Zealand waters
between 2002–03 and 2008–09.

Seabirds are most frequently caught by being hooked during longlining,
caught in trawl nets or struck by trawl warps. In New Zealand,
government observers are present on some vessels and record any
captures of seabirds and other protected species that occur. This
study estimated the total numbers of seabirds that would have been
reported if observers had been present on every fishing vessel.

Hierarchical statistical models were used to estimate the total
captures of seabirds by trawl and longline methods from the observer
data. Captures were estimated for trawl, bottom longline, and surface
longline fisheries, within the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone.
Trawl fishing targeting inshore species was not studied.

The total number of seabirds estimated to have been caught during the
2008–09 fishing year was 3224 (95% c.i.: 2520 to 4412). Of the total
estimated captures, 27.5% were albatross species, with the remainder
being petrels and shearwaters.

The capture rate of white-capped albatross declined from an estimated
mean of 1631 in 2004–05 to 575 in 2007–08 and 887 in 2008–09. This
decrease was largely achieved through the mandatory use of trawl warp
mitigation since January 2006.

Across all fisheries studied, there was a significant decrease (47.6%)
in the total number of birds caught between 2002–03 and 2008–09. This
fall was associated with declines in effort in trawl, bottom longline,
and surface longline fisheries.

Estimated seabird captures increased by 29.3% between 2007–08 and
2008–09. This increase occurred for a range of seabird species, in a
range of different fisheries, despite an ongoing decline in the
effort. The reasons for this increase are unclear.

[Read the report summary.](/publications/abraham_seabirds_02-09.html)

[Download full report from the Ministry of
Fisheries.](http://fs.fish.govt.nz/Page.aspx?pk=113&dk=22872)

