---
title: Better communication by design
---
Design students from Massey University are again looking for ways to
improve communication of the complex issues around fishing bycatch,
focussing on our fur seals, white-capped albatross and black petrels.

The project is a 4th year Information Design paper, taken as part of a
Bachelor of Design (Hons). Students are challenged to take the raw
data provided by Dragonfly, and translate it into a relevant graphic
form for a selected audience.

<!--more-->

![Detail of seabird safe release
poster, designed by Alex Downey](/news/2012-06-08-better-communication-design/bird_poster_closeup.png)

The 12-week course began with a presentation from Johanna and Edward
from Dragonfly. Students initially wrote a report about one of the
three species, graphed some of the data provided by Dragonfly, looked
carefully at the issues facing that species and came up with some
solutions. The next phase involved choosing a client, a target
audience and the visual medium they would use to convey their message,
and researching the specifics of that medium.

Annette O’Sullivan from the Institute of Communication Design,
initiated the collaboration last year.

“Dragonfly are totally supportive of this project and have been really
patient in answering students’ questions, despite being so busy. It’s
absolutely brilliant for our students to get this kind of engagement
with industry and the fact that reducing fishing bycatch is such a
worthwhile topic makes it even better, she says.

“There are many ways to approach a project like this. We encourage
students not just to use standard methods like pie charts to display
the data, but to think about converting the data into an accessible
form to clarify the information to the target audience. Of course the
message has to be correct, clear, complete and honest but if it can be
presented through an approachable visual language, then people are not
having to wade through words and numbers to find what they are looking
for.”

This year, students have chosen a huge variety of media for their
projects, including packaging for fishing bait, a children’s book,
iPhone app, freezer graphics, and wharf signage.

One of last year’s students, Alex Downey, had his poster picked up by
Southern Seabird Solutions, who are encouraging recreational and commercial fishers to download
and print them, and place them in obvious places on their boats. Then
if a bird is accidentally caught it has the best possible chance of
survival afterwards.


