---
title: Doing our bit to reverse the brain drain
---

Christopher Knox recently joined the Dragonfly team as a
visualisation scientist. Originally from Christchurch, he spent 10
years overseas, most recently in Saudi Arabia. 

Although Chris
and his wife were planning to return to New Zealand eventually, the
offer of a job with Dragonfly was the catalyst they needed to make the
move home.

<!--more-->

“I was working in data visualisation at the King Abdullah University
of Science and Technology. It’s an international university carrying
out research in areas like solar power, desalination and drought
resistant plants, as well as other traditional science disciplines”,
he says.

“The brand new university was built in 2009 and is set on a 32 sq km
campus, where nearly everyone lives.

Data visualisation was used by teams across the university as a tool
to cope with terabyte-sized data sets, as well as by chemists working
on large biomolecules or catalytic clusters.

“Visualisation is a two stage process that begins by using an
algorithm to reconstruct a 3D representation of your data, whatever
its original form was. This is done routinely for MRI scan data where
‘slices’ of the body are put together again to make the body shape in
three dimensions.  The second stage uses a technique like ray casting
to draw or transfer the shape onto a screen. By virtually shining rays
through the shape and seeing what makes it through, you can map what’s
inside, based on the density or another property of the material. You
repeat the ray casting over and over in different fields and use
colour to show up different values.

“If you were visualising a brain you could use different densities to
map the skull, tissue and blood vessels, and quickly zoom in to the
areas you were particularly interested in, such as a tumour. That’s
the beauty of visualisation – you can get to what you want quickly,
without having to wade through all your data.

But visualisation also has a downside. “The great strength and
weakness of visualisation is that it looks awesome! That can make it
very easy to show people the wrong result – and when it’s up there in
colour it becomes very believable.”

Chris also has a long-standing interest in using visualisation
for field science. One of his goals is to help field scientists make
better decisions in the field about what they are sampling, using
visualisation and analysis.

“While I was in Saudi I was involved in starting a company that
produces the [iDive](http://idivehousing.com/), a waterproof housing
for iPads so they can be used when scuba diving. The project came out
of work we were doing with marine biologists, who were looking for a
better way to do things. Using the iPad they can put the data straight
in while they’re underwater instead of scratching on pieces of
waterproof paper.”
