---
title: Working at Dragonfly
sortorder: "1000"
tag: vacancies
banner: vacancies/vacancies-letterbox.jpg
---

Would you like to join the Dragonfly Data Science team ?

<!--more-->

Dragonfly Data Science is a dynamic data science company with a range of public
and private sector clients. We are a small consultancy, primarily based in
Wellington, New Zealand.  We are a collaborative team, taking pride in our
ability to work together and draw on substantial expertise across a range of
domains. While individuals are responsible for particular projects, outputs are
the products of our teamwork: we build on everyoneâ€™s complementary set of
skills to deliver outputs that exceed expectation, and we are personally and
professionally proud of the quality of the work that we achieve.

We use advanced statistical and machine-learning techniques, make extensive use
of cloud computing, wrangle large data sets, and build beautiful data-rich
visualisations and reports. We are committed to using reproducible methods in
all our work.

We are an inclusive and friendly company, focused on collaboration and
innovation.  We strive to provide an excellent work environment.

### Graduate data scientist

This position is an entry-level role. You will work alongside senior data
scientists to prepare work for our clients. We are seeking candidates who are
efficient, productive, and fast learners. The work will range widely, including
initial data exploration, model development (Bayesian and/or ML), data
visualisation, and preparing presentations and reports. We use reproducible
methods, and you will be writing code.

You can find more information [graduate-data-scientist.html](graduate-data-scientist.html).

Applications close on Saturday, 14 March 2020.

### Early-career fisheries scientist

We are looking for an early-career fisheries scientist with data analysis and
modelling skills to contribute to projects related to fisheries and their
environmental impacts (e.g., bycatch) in New Zealand and internationally.

You can find more information [early-career-fisheries-scientist.html](early-career-fisheries-scientist.html).

Applications close on Saturday, 14 March 2020.


